# Plant-Disease-Detection
In today's world, the agricultural land mass is more than just a source of food. Agriculture productivity is extremely important to India's economy. This is one of the reasons why disease detection in plants is important in the agricultural field, as diseases in plants is a natural occurrence. If proper care is not taken in this area, it can have serious consequences for plants, affecting the product quality, quantity, and productivity. As a result, in the field of agriculture, disease detection in plants is critical. The use of an automatic disease detection technique is beneficial in detecting a plant disease in its early stages. The current method for plant disease detection is simple naked eye observation by experts, which allows for disease identification and detection. This necessarily involves a large team of experts as well as continuous plant monitoring, both of which come at a high cost when dealing with large farms. Simultaneously, in some countries, farmers lack adequate facilities or even the knowledge that such facilities exist. In these circumstances, the suggested technique is useful for monitoring large fields of crops. It is easier and less expensive to detect diseases automatically by simply looking at the symptoms on the plant leaves. Our method for determining whether a plant leaf is healthy or unhealthy is to use techniques like image acquisition, image pre-processing, image segmentation, feature extraction along with traditional machine learning algorithms. Image processing is used to determine the difference in colour of the affected area and to measure the affected area's affected area. Image segmentation can be accomplished in a variety of ways, ranging from simple thresholding to advanced colour image segmentation methods. The algorithms are used for the image classification. The accurate detection and classification of plant diseases is critical for successful crop cultivation, and image processing can help with this.
